 Composing a color palette – Radix Colors Radix Homepage Made by WorkOS Radix Homepage Made by WorkOS Themes Themes Primitives Primitives Icons Icons Colors Colors Documentation Custom palette Blog Overview Installation Usage Aliasing Custom palettes Releases Palette composition Scales Composing a palette Understanding the scale Composing a color palette 
 A guide to composing a color palette with Radix Colors. 
 Choosing a brand scale 
 Radix provides a number of scales you could use for your brand or accent color. 
 Scales designed for white foreground text: bronze gold brown orange tomato red ruby crimson pink plum purple violet iris indigo blue cyan teal jade green grass Scales designed for dark foreground text: sky mint lime yellow amber 
 Custom brand colors 
 Radix Colors are not intended to be customised. They’re designed to be accessible, well-balanced, and harmonious. Any customisation would likely break these features. 
 If you need custom brand colors, we recommend adding custom scales alongside Radix scales. 
 For example, you could use Radix Colors for your gray scale and your semantic scales, then add custom brand/accent colors. 
 Choosing a gray scale 
 Radix Colors provides a pure gray and a few tinted gray scales. 
 gray mauve slate sage olive sand 
 
 gray is pure gray 
 mauve is based on a purple hue 
 slate is based on a blue hue 
 sage is based on a green hue 
 olive is based on a lime hue 
 sand is based on a yellow hue 
 
 Neutral pairing 
 If you want a neutral vibe, or you want to keep things simple, gray will work well with any hue or palette. 
 Natural pairing 
 Alternatively, choose the gray scale which is saturated with the hue closest to your accent hue. The difference is subtle, but this will create a more colorful and harmonius vibe. 
 mauve tomato red ruby crimson pink plum purple violet slate iris indigo blue sky cyan sage mint teal jade green olive grass lime sand yellow amber orange brown 
 Note: If your project uses a lot of colorful UI components like Badge, be
careful when using saturated grays for your app background, especially in dark
mode. Colorful UI components may clash with your saturated gray background
color. 
 Choosing semantic scales 
 For most projects, you will need colors to communicate semantic meaning. Here are some common pairings that work well in Western culture. 
 
 Error : red , ruby , tomato , crimson 
 Success : green , teal , jade , grass , mint 
 Warning : yellow , amber , orange 
 Info : blue , indigo , sky , cyan 
 
 In many cases, you might eventually need most of the scales, for one reason or another. Your app may support multiplayer mode, where you assign a color to each user. Your app may have a labelling feature, where your users assign a color to a task. Your app may use badges to communicate “pending” or “rejected” states. 
 Radix Colors are well-balanced, and designed to work in harmony. So for product communication, most color pairings will work. 
 Choosing text scales 
 Steps 11 and 12 are designed for low-contrast text and high-contrast text respectively. Depending on the vibe you want, you can use your accent scale or your gray scale. 
 Using your accent scale will result in a more colorful vibe. 
 This text is Blue 12 
 Using your gray scale will result in a more functional vibe. 
 This text is Slate 12 
 The difference may seem subtle, but it can make a huge difference with a whole page of text. 
 You may want to experiment with using your accent scale for text in your marketing sites, and your gray scale for text in your apps. Quick nav Previous Scales Next Understanding the scale Edit this page on GitHub. 
